From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 29. Recorded live Thursday,
September 11, 2008. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by.
Tellerik already controls the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
application. online@wwwdottlerik.com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Microsoft MSA Jack's
program manager, or try and
move on. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
we're sitting down today with
vertran Leroy. As I
like to call him. He's
a program manager with Microsoft
and all around JavaScript expert,
and we're going to be
chatting a little bit about
some more advanced JavaScript topics,
but you know, I'm not
a JavaScript expert. And I
would like to understand a
little bit more about how
I should think about JavaScript.
Last week, we had Scott
Caden talking about object oriented
Java script. We had a
lot of good feedback from
that discussion. Some people who
were JavaScript kind of hardcore
people felt that some of
the things that Scott had
shared were not really the
way they like to think
about it. And maybe that
his understanding of the prototype
model was a little bit
confused. So I went and
did a bunch of research
on this and I looked
at people's websites like Douglas
Crockford, and I found that
JavaScript is a lot more
complicated than I think I
thought it was portraying. I
think I'm, I think I'm
writing pretty procedural JavaScript and
it turns out it's a
lot more object oriented than
I given it credit for.
Yeah. Well you can do
stuff in a number of
ways. And what's interesting about
JavaScript is that the concept
count is really low, but
there are really lots of
things you can do with
those concepts. And that gave
rise to a number of
styles of coding in JavaScript.
And so some people like
to stay very close to
the prototype oriented nature of
JavaScript, and some people like
to abstract things where, and
where are we? Things like
that that looks like regular
classes. And you really
see lots of both styles.
You know, the, there are
some people that feel very
strongly, that one approach is
the one true way. And
so it's quite interesting to
look at Well, how important
is it for, for me
to understand this concept of,
of prototyping, the people that
I've spoken to. And some
of the interesting discussions have
happened on Twitter. I that
this is fundamentally JavaScript's power.
And, but if you come
into it, looking at things
from a class oriented perspective
and expecting to declare classes
and then use them that
you will, you know, ultimately
get confused. Other people say
that everything is a method.
Everything is a hash table.
Not, I should look at
it that way. You know,
what's the right way to
think about JavaScript. I think
no matter what you should
know at least about prototypes
and you should know about
closure and there is this
number of concept that you
will need to know about
anywhere, even if you're using
some kind of abstraction that
gives you classes, actual tests,
any Tarrytown, some stuff like
that. I think it's still
important to know what's going
on. You know, it's always
the, the, the, the program
of so called leaky abstractions,
my personal reposition being that
there is no such thing
as a non leaky abstraction.
You you're going to be
confronted with the, the, the
real nature of JavaScript and
the real nature of JavaScript,
these prototypes and closure of
and all that stuff. So,
yeah, I think it, it
eats this minimum number of
concepts that you need to
learn anyway. So how do
you explain prototypes to people
who are getting started? How
do you explain that concept
In class based languages? There
is a notion of access,
and there is a notion
of a constructor in JavaScript.
What cities are consuming is
that the class and the
constructor are actually the same
entity. So when you do
new food, for example, food
is supposed to class. And
the construct on what happens
is that the full function
gets executed and an object
gets free transform that. And
that's your instance, but she
in JavaScript, the prototype underclass,
actually the same thing. And
here I'm using the term
class, which may be irritating
for some sort school choice.
But anyway, and when you
do, when you knew up
an instance of a class,
or when you have a
construct that the original thing
object will have a prototype,
and that prototype is what's
common to all the instances
of the subject. And so
one way to look at
it is that when you,
when you use a member
of an object, what JavaScript
is going to do is
it's going to look at
this member and it's going
to look in a number
of pages. It's going to
look first at the object
itself for expanders in a
way that had been set
on the subject. And if
it doesn't find it there,
it will go up for
hockey. And the prototype is
part of that hockey. And
you can have a whole
hierarchy of prototypes. And that
looks a little bit like
based classes, but it's a
slightly different concept. And this
is why there are so
many libraries that introduce actual
classes and inheritance using underlying
prototype, like, like we do
actually, but it's really all
about looking at member and
going up the hierarchy of
a prototype inheritance and stuff
like that. I hope I'm
being clear. No, that makes
something a lot of sense.
So that brings up another
questions though. So, you know,
you said that really any
library that you put on
top of this is ultimately
going to be a leaky
abstraction, I assume, including, you
know, MSA jacks, which a
lot of people feel is
a library that makes Java
script, you know, look and
smell more like C-sharp, you
know, with interfaces and I
disposable and inventing and things
like that. But ultimately it's
going to leak as well.
At some point, you're going
to want to understand that
that's a construct of the
library and not really a
construct of, of JavaScript. Yes.
Okay. So it sounds like
it's important to know about
that Success in, in NSA
drugs makes the prototype very
obvious. Actually, you, you first
define your constructor and then
you define the prototype and
you really write prototype. It's
not like you've got some
older libraries. I think movie's
doing that where, or even
prototype where you have a
classmate out somewhere and you
give it a, an object
that describes your class, but
the prototype is actually not
apparent at all in that
central it's still very apparent.
Okay. So, so yeah, so
you're saying MSA Jack's is
not as doesn't try as
hard when it comes to
hiding as other libraries do.
No. I think we try
to give it a.net here
because our user base is
used to those nets. So
we want, we want you
to make the transition as
easy as possible, but we,
we really didn't want to,
to make that night on
top of shadow script that
was on the ADA. We
really wanted to use Java
script for, for its trends.
I don't know if we
succeeded at that, but that's
what we tried to. Hmm.
Now as a Microsoft employee
and one that's focused on,
on Ajax, of course, the
Ajax world is, is very,
very wide. And a lot
of it is open source.
How much do you work
with other libraries and see
how Microsoft stuff works along
with, with jQuery, it works
along with ext JS or
mochi kit or whatever. I
mean, there's a pile out
there and you know, certainly
the long tail happens pretty
quickly, but there's four or
five libraries that are really,
really popular. How much, how
much do you spend looking
at those things? Yeah. Well,
that's a really interesting question.
All of those rivalries focus
mainly on the client side,
right? So they're, they're, they're
really JavaScript libraries and they,
most of them don't really
have a, a silver counterpart,
which makes Microsoft Ajax a
particula. In the sense there
are, there are of course
other libraries that do into
the server side part, but
you should look at the
major ones like Jake, where
you prototype, move, it sits
around there. We all about
the, the, the, the client
side. And the thing is
what we care about at
Microsoft here in terms of,
you know, what our bottom
line is, what we want
is HP doesn't adoption. That's
what we're really after. Right?
So for us, we don't
see all these other libraries
as it's not, it's not
competition. It's the same sense
that Java server pages are
our competition for asp.net, because
you can still use those
libraries with hp.net and as
a developer, you prefer jQuery.
We're absolutely fine with that.
And actually jQuery is an
interesting example because it's very,
it's a good compliment where
actually MSA jacks, because it's
doing stuff that we are
not doing currently, and it's
doing it really well. That's
an example of a library
that's really focuses on one
problem, solves it really well.
And that's something that, that,
that personally, I appreciate a
lot. And I've been using
jQuery in personal projects as
a compliment to MSA jacks
to do CSS direct off
and stuff. So, yeah. How
reasonable do you think it
is for people to use,
you know, MSA jacks as
a, as a standalone library,
without any Microsoft server on
the backend? Like, I mean,
I went and, you know,
you and I moved a
MSA jacks into Aptana so
that people who use Aptana,
which is an open source,
eclipse based IDE, they want
to use MSH ex client
library, which is, you know,
it's just JavaScript. They can
totally do that. Is it
just the, the string builder
that they would want? Or
are there other things that
someone would want to use
in MSA jacks that aren't
compliments to asp.net? Yeah. So
I think there is a
number of strong points about,
about our Irene and one
of them is globalization. For
example, I think asphalt for
globalization, string formatting, date formatting,
all that stuff is really
outstanding and doesn't have a
lot of equipment out there.
So there is a number
of things like that, that
, for example, you're, you're
taking for granted, but that
really in JavaScript, not trivial
at all. I mean, for
example, if she wants to
format a Canada in a
Japanese culture, for example, or
any culture, or for that
matter, that's not something that
that's really treasured in JavaScript,
and that's something we're providing
of the box, the library.
So, you know, it's a
lot of those little services
that you take for granted
in managed code, but that,
that is not trivial in
JavaScript, but you should look
at the main library. There
are no conforms in there,
for example. So it's really
a, a base layer for,
for constructing higher level constructs,
like components and controls and
behaviors. So if you are
looking for more higher level
components, you should look at
the  library. Yeah. Now,
when it comes to also
Microsoft specific stuff, like, for
example, I've seen a number
of people online doing performance
testing with like something as
basic as extreme builders, whether
it be the MSA Jack
string builder, or like the
dojo string builder. And they'll
go and say, well, I
think one article I saw
that Scott Coon sent me
was a performance in internet
Explorer. So the guy went
and looked at , he
looked at  and he
wanted to see if, you
know, figure out is, you
know, is a re dot,
joined the best way to
bring strings together. And things
like that when now I
ate is out and I
haven't done any of the
performance tests and things like
that, but how much attention
do you have to spend
in the MSH X client
library to browsers that are
either getting faster or changing
the way that they do
garbage collection or things like
that, to make sure that
the string builder still works
well. So it's, it's funny
that you're taking the string
builder example because that's, that's
really, that's a class that
personally, I, I, if you
had only depended on the,
I may not have included
that class because yeah, as
you mentioned, our joining is,
is the most efficient way
to, to do that currently.
Well, actually this is evolving
and string concatenation becomes pretty
fast too. So string builder
actually tends to be somewhat
slower than, than those native
ways of, of concatenating and
conflicting strings. So string builder
doesn't have the same use
formats as it has in
the managed world in ESCO.
Basically, if you're going to
concatenate, not predefine number of
strings, you should use a
string builder because this is,
this is what's going to
be the fastest most of
the time, right in JavaScript,
that's actually not true. The
string builder will usually not
give you a performance advantage
where it will give you
is some convenience API that,
that made the building the
string easier. Like for example,
if you do an, a
drawing and in your eye,
you have undefined on the
elements, you get undefined string
in your, in your outputs,
which is not decided what
you wanted, what you wanted
was an empty string. For
example, the string builder is
going to do that kind
of stuff for you. So
the user a little different,
It helps with your expectations.
It may not necessarily be
about performance, but more about
giving you back results that
you expect that may not
be obvious. So if you
were doing, Yeah, and, and
that's also one interesting point
that that is something that's
specific to Mexico state, which
is that when we have
an equivalent on the net
API, we've tried to achieve
consistency with the botnet behavioral
as much as possible. And
that's something you see on
string formatting, adding, for example,
if you have the format
string dot format in.net, and
you do the same in
JavaScript, you, you you'd get
the same results. So there
is his goal for consistency.
I think I completely lost
track of short, original questions
here. Well, I mean, ultimately
my question was how much
attention do you have to
pay to things that you've
done in the past when
new browsers come out and
change things? You know, the
garbage collectors are a lot
different. Yeah. So, yeah, so
the, the, the, the stream
builder example is interesting because
now string concatenation tends to
be somewhat faster than our
join, which interesting to see,
but there are other areas
like the manipulation, for example,
that, that getting a lot
of attention from browser vendor,
which means that today in
one of our new features,
for example, like Tom page
rendering on the clients, when
you do templates, rendering many
concrete engines out there are
actually doing string concatenation because
that's, that's used to be
the fastest way of doing
that. But there are a
number of disadvantages in doing
strength, intonations like that. Like,
for example, you have to
encode some strings for the
same reasons that when you
see qual a sequence of
instructions using string combination, you
will have to encode everything
you're injecting into the SQL
code, or otherwise you will
get injection attacks. Right? So
what people are doing today
is that they are using
constructing. They are, they are
SQL using parameter. Right, right.
But today, when you do
some plating on the client,
most engineers actually do string
cultivation, which is something that
you wouldn't do with SQL.
So what I'm getting at
is that here that that's
a, that's a point where
browser vendors are making the
manipulation much faster, and now
it becomes almost as fast
to construct your template, a
rendering by actually calling them
ATI than it is by
doing, you know, HTML like
those engines are doing. So
that's something we've looked at
when we constructed that, that
feature. We had a number
of design goals that we
had, and one of them
was performance. And when we
looked at, should we do
strength concatenations or should we,
should we do dull manipulation
using the GRC, the domain
API. We found out that
the gap between the two
was actually reducing as the
browser evolve. So we decided
to take the bet and
to domain integration, which is
a much richer way of
doing things that, that gives
us a lot of additional
features that we would never
have, or we wouldn't have
as easily with a string
concatenation. So that that's one
case where the browser evolution
is really helping us building
better features. Yeah. That's actually
the law, the whole domino
simulation in live binding and
live templating thing. We should,
we should come back to
in a little more detail,
but I want to just
veer off for one second,
because you brought up an
interesting point that we've got,
we've got Chrome and we've
got, you know, VA and
trace monkey, and there's all
these things happening on in,
in JavaScript. Jitting nano jetting,
making it faster. And it's,
it's, it's interesting to me
that they're talking about getting
JavaScript up to, you know,
almost the speed of C,
but we're seeing micro performance
numbers, and they're showing things
like, you know, here's JavaScript,
that's a thousand times faster.
If it's, you know, recursing,
she was like, there's a
big argument right now going
on between VA and tres
monkey about, you know, this
is the fastest benchmark, but
it's only a very obscure
education it has to do
with, you know, tail recursion.
I'm wondering it doesn't mean
real work and JavaScript doesn't
real work. And JavaScript happens
when you manipulate the Dom.
I would think more than
it. It's, you know, deep,
computational, we're not doing protein
folding work in JavaScript. Doesn't
the browser's implementation of the
Dom effect speed. So yeah,
that, that's an excellent point
in time. And when I
saw the benchmarks that were
first published about Chrome, I
said, what, what are they
thinking? I mean, who is
going to do a well
needs to do a rate
tracing in JavaScript? I mean,
that doesn't make any sense
today. And maybe the Google
people are actually looking farther
away than, than I am.
But currently the bottleneck for
me is the money creation.
That is the number one
bottleneck, and I'm guessing it's
the same for, or application
developers. So that's what we
need to get really fast.
And the good news is
that Chrome is doing a
good job at that too.
And, you know, we are,
we are not internet Explorer
cheerleaders in this team. We
are in genetics for our
users. So we may have
a closer connection with the
internet Explorer team, but we
are very happy to see
drivers getting faster on, on
other browsers, because we know
that this is going to
lead the, the 18 to
actually follow up with action
and get their own JavaScript
engine faster. So we think
this is really going in
the, in the good direction.
And Ajax has been a
fantastic catalyst in that evolution.
Yeah. I mean, ultimately I
was actually recently misquoted in
a, in a panel we
talked about when I said
that, you know, it's good
that all of this is
happening. And I said in
the quote that that JavaScript
getting faster is going to
kind of kick us all
in the butt and move
forward in the, in the,
in the article that was
written, they thought I was
talking about kicking Microsoft in
the butt, but really just
JavaScript, getting faster is a
good thing for everyone. Every
browser should have fast JavaScript.
Every developer should not have
to worry so much about,
about JavaScript, slowing their system
down, you know, which makes
me wonder, like how much,
how, how soon until we
get really truly multithreaded JavaScript
where we're not, we can't
bring a browser down from,
you know, locking entire page
up from, from badly written
JavaScript. There's been some, some
interesting tests that have been
done where people can do
something like, you know, while
true, and then doing a
string, a string append and
block up and in lockup,
I E completely because of
a poorly written JavaScript. I
mean, we've all seen times
when we'd hit a browser
page and we say a
script on this page is
running slowly. So yeah. So,
so what Chrome and
are doing in terms of
isolation is interesting, but ultimately
you wouldn't even the page
to crash, even if it
has bad scripts like that.
And actually there is some
interesting research going on at
Java that Microsoft about that,
and that should be made
public in the next few
months. And that's a fascinating
subject and there is a
lot to be done there.
And I think what what's
going to happen is that
people are going to find
solutions for these that don't
necessarily imply co-work in the
browser, but they are going
to proof of concept, but
we also have those programs
and eventually those will be
integrated into the browser. And
that's exactly what happened with
Ajax. And this trend is
continuing and it's great to
see because the whole community
is really evolving the web.
That's why I'm saying that.
That's great. Do you know
how to make the possible
out of the impossible? Well,
the dotnet ninjas at Telerik
do they just released a
huge pack of web controls,
all built on top of
ESPN at Ajax, that'll help
you build impossibly fast and
interactive applications in no time
at all. They've made the
impossible possible in desktop development.
If you think you can't
have a carousel component and
wind forms, well, you can,
they're windows forms, suite features
of super powerful grid view
control on 32 other crazy
desktop components that will give
you a dazzling WPF, like,
but in wind farms, they
do the same thing in
reporting solutions with a new
design surface, like nothing else
looks just like graph paper,
cause you advanced page layout
capabilities makes it feel more
like a graphic design software
than a reporting solution. Go
check them out@telerikdotcomandbea.net Ninja. Thanks
for listening. Well, where do
you think JavaScript's going to
go? You know what, what's
next? What are some things
that you'd like to see
implemented to make Ajax easier,
you know, in JavaScript, you
know, what is it 1.6
plus plus, what do you,
what do you want to
implement it to, to better
enable Ajax scenarios? You know,
shop town, I'm pretty happy
with how things are going.
I mean, having Jace native,
Jason  initialization, that's great.
That's something that's really gonna
help with the performance of
Ajax applications. And also just
the security. We also have
some needs cross domain, cross
I'm in communication is also
something that we are getting
with the new browsers and
the HTML five specifications, actually,
those a number of things
that are interesting for Ajax.
And that what's interesting here
is that if you look
at the ECMAScript substations, there
is actually very little about
dumb interaction, that kind of
stuff. And this is something
that's been taken over by
the what world group, when
they did.  one thing
I'd like from the ECMAScript
community would be to have
more, more explicit work, being
done with Dom interaction in,
from reading the script state,
because let's face it JavaScript
easily is becoming a very,
very important language, but it's
still mainly use when interacting
with the document object model.
So these should be baked
into the specification in my
opinion, but that would clear
a number of ambiguity that
can be programmed today. So
longer term. I mean, I'm,
I'm, I'm really interested in
seeing how things evolve in
the ECMAScript communities. The, the
recent harmony SI has been
very interesting to do that
because finally things are going
to move. So that's kind
of cool. It's interesting how
quickly it's happened. We're in
a new browser war suddenly
and it's all JavaScript based.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Seeing the
general education coming back from
these huge wild, strange, long
ways that was the proposed
ECMAScript fall back to something
you need a more pragmatic.
And I think pragmatic is
the key word here that
that was good to see.
And what's also good to
see that this is not
going to be a flipping
innovation in the language. So
Yeah, I've been using JavaScript.
I mean, I used it
when it was live script,
you know, back back in
the day. And I, and
I was doing this actually
while working at Nike and
working on, on the Java
Java applet actually. And now
it seems like Java script
has got the power of,
of Java. You know, it's
kind of come full circle
and now they're gonna start
nano budgeting things and getting,
you know, we've got the
DLR running J script in
the CLR and the DLR
is this going to kill?
Is this going to kill
Java and, and flash and
Silverlight, Well, I'm not a
big believer in something
I put Kira Killer after
anything. Let me, let me
rephrase it. Do you think
that JavaScript, can it get
so sophisticated that it could
become powerful enough to really
use to use for those,
those really complicated interactions that
the people use Silverlight for
now? Well, actually I would,
I would love that. Well,
you're the JavaScript PM. So
you'd be really excited about
that Personally. I would, I
would love it, but somehow
it's taking kind of that
direction. I mean, the, the,
the, all the Victaulic graphics
in the browser is getting,
it's getting there. I mean,
it's still trying to explore,
but Well, you know, whenever,
but whenever I do a
site that has, you know,
even something as basic as
like a little flash podcast
player, or like we're doing
baby smash in J and
M and Silverlight right now,
there's always an interaction with
JavaScript. I mean, it seems
like JavaScript is the glue
that fits everything together. I
just couldn't see writing, you
know, sometimes you'll see people
go and write something in
JavaScript and it'll make you
go, wow, that guy just
wrote solitaire entirely in JavaScript.
Or he wrote someone wrote
lemmings the video game, lemmings
and JavaScript. Yeah. There is
also an audio instrumentation. It's
impossible. It's impossible to read
and maintain. Yeah, I dunno.
I, I personally, I don't
see it. I don't see
any killing going on, frankly,
but, but I think JavaScript
getting faster is better for
everyone. So I think there
is room for more than
one tool that that's why
I don't like the kidding.
I think really there are
different cultures and different ways
of looking at things. And
every time I see someone
claiming that something is the
one true way of doing
something, I, I really don't
like to share that kind
of stuff. I mean, that
doesn't make any sense to
me. There will always be
people who prefer to develop
in manage code that we
always need people who prefer
to develop in a dynamic
language or study Congo or
you name it. What's interesting
is that it's, it's, it's
when the technology becomes mature
enough that you can do
pretty much what you want
with it. And when I
say that, I would love
to see, DRSP get to
the point where I can
do everything that Sasha is
doing. That. That's what I
mean by that. I mean,
if you, if JavaScript is
your tool of choice, and
then you should able to
do whatever you want, and
if civil rights is you
also have choice, you should
be able to do whatever
you like. Right. Exactly. So
the water level is raised
such that kind of all
boats float. Yeah. That's my
ideal world. You choose the
tool that you prefer. Yeah.
I, I wouldn't like, well,
I wouldn't, like on the
other hand would be for
JavaScript to be a cheetah
or for all those products
and become the one true
way of doing things. Right.
Right. Cause then at some
point they'd become a, there'd
be no way to do
something in JavaScript. You wouldn't
be able to maybe talk
to the webcam or we'd
have to wait for the
HTML version seven that comes
out with the webcam tag.
People are saying that the
video tag is somehow going
to change, you know, flash.
And then YouTube is going
to start switching over to
the video tag and things
like that. Like, like a
new HTML tag is going
to be the solution to
all of our problems on
the web. You know, all
that. There is no end
to innovation, right? So it's
just raising the bar and
people will find something else
beyond video that that is
the new chiller app. And
it goes on like this
and that's, that's how the
industry evolved. And that that's
great. Well, speaking, yeah. Speaking
of innovation, let's talk about
the templating engine that people
can go look at a
code, flex.com/asp net. This is
the, what are you calling
this now? What's the kind
of the code name is
live templating or what, what
did we need, what are
we calling the client templates?
I'm not sure we have
a good name for it.
Well, what is it that,
that it is here? And
then if I will point
people towards your blog and
up and towards a Plex,
what is this accomplished? Cause
it's JavaScript. What's your download
from Kotex is ac.net Ajax
for O preview. So it's
a preview of the next
version of HT. Doesn't have
the drive. And this includes
several things, several key components.
I'm hoping that these key
components are very much painting
a complete picture of the
scenario that he's developing your
client's site data. We want
application. So today she wants
to develop the data driven
application. You can do it
on the server. You can
do it with a date
panels or you can do
it purely on the client.
And so there is this
kind of evolution from everything
on the server we been
seeing on the client and
the scenario we are addressing
here, info is everything on
the clients. So what we
are giving you is a
way a new year, way
to query, for example, adl.net
data services, which are services
under that. So you, you
get that data to the
client. And then from that
data, you form a teaching
to HTML. You have some
interaction going on in the
client, and then you get
that data back to the
server. So that's the end
to end scenario. And some
plating is a key part
of these because that's the
part that takes your data
and the OBS from interactive
UI from it. Okay, exactly.
I was at tech ed
Australia and New Zealand just last
week. And I used some
JavaScript and the Historia now
ado.net data services, JavaScript API
to pull information over and
put it into an owner
list. But I ended up
just using string concatenation. So
I should have used, I
would, would've been able to
use this and would have
been a simpler way to
do it. So there are
actually two main ways you
can construct UI from, from
data on the client. You
can do string concatenation like
she did, but these has
an invoice issues. I was
saying earlier, like, like preventing.
Yeah, exactly. But, but this
is usually fairly fast. I
mean, even the fastest apportion
that you can use or
you can use the dome
API. And if you use
the domain API, it's another
kind of nightmare because your
code becomes very unreadable and
very unmaintainable and this is
issues on use an abstraction
layer and you have the
right abstraction here is to
use a template. So it's
on page. It's just, I
mean, this has been, this
has been a shift for
over, I mean, we've been
using templating engines for, for
forever, but on the client
there . And so some
case engine is doing is
it's hiding the way it's
actually constructing the HTML and
what it's presenting you as
the abstraction is HTML. We
place holder where the data
is going to go. Like
it goes, that's the medium
way of describing it. Okay.
So in this case, I
would have made my, my
list in my honor list.
And I would say UL
and LLI, and then I
would put a class like
a CSS class on that,
on that element. And that
would make it, make it
available to you to pull
data into No, what you,
what you do is that
you insert some kind of,
some kinds of special syntax
plate holders. So we use
a double Charlie abrasive and
what's inside of the double
curly braces will be evaluated.
So let's say for example,
that you want an improve
that has the value that
comes from the first name
field in your data. What
you would do is input
type equals text value equals
race, first name, and
you close your Cardi Bryce
tardigrades Okay. And that, and
that is shipped to the,
to the client. There's no
server side work happening here
that, that, that magic curly
brace curly brace value is
shipped all the way to
the client and lives in
the browser for a moment
before it gets bound. Yes.
So here, everything happens on
the client. And actually when
I do the demo for
the feature, I like to
use a plain HTML page,
not an HBX page because
it's sweet. It's really shows
that there is no service
site magic going on here,
and everything is happening under
science. So they received the
template with the DoubleClick braces.
So how do you Mark
the, you know, the, the
parent element as that, this,
this is the beginning of
a template. So there is
a class that you can
use, but it is mainly
used to hide the market
from the insurance going up
the page. Because when you,
when the page comes to
the client, you don't want
to dump it with the
curly brace placeholder. You don't
want that displayed, right? So
you use a CSS class
just to hide that from
the, from the, but you,
you can, you can only
the CSS class and the
rendering wheel will still work.
Okay. So I would Mark
the CSS class, not to
let you know about it,
but rather to hide that
while it's a, you know,
before it's, it's rendered now,
how do I, where's the
where's the implied looping happen?
So before I, before I
answer that, let me mentioned
how other complete engines are
doing things, because that's kind
of an important distinction here.
What, what most of the
other guys are doing is
that they're actually putting the
templates in a script tag
or in the text area
that's hidden to, or there
are a number of different
approaches. And we are actually
not hiding the template code
inside of the text area
like that, or, or strings
or script tags, because what
they are doing is that
actually, when they get the
code, they get hit as
a string. We get it
directly as a dumb, as
a structured. So we are
using the browser HTML, passer
to our benefit here. Okay.
Okay. So you have in
your piggy backing your semantics
on what it would already
is coming down. Yeah. So
one of the things we've
done is make sure that
the syntax that we come
up with printed is compatible
with XHTML for example, because
the code for the take
itself is, can be exit
Shema compliance. If I was
going to use the templating
in the middle of an
already XHTML compliance site, I
would be very frustrated if
the templating engine, we know
it didn't create very readable
code. You know, if I
couldn't visualize what the template
is going to go into
generate. And certainly I'd be
very frustrated if it didn't
validate anymore. Yeah. So there
is a number of advantages
to that. The first is
that we get the dump,
the instrument passing for free
from the browser. The second
is that it validates. And
the third one is it's
easier to design. You can
actually open that page in
an HTML design. And I
like doing, we were obviously
a studio and your designer
is going to give all
to edit that code. Like
he did eating regular HTML.
Ah, okay. So it's not
just a stream. That's stuck
somewhere into the, into the
page, which is a lot
more, a lot more difficult
to handle and manage. So
now that I've explained that
we can, we can, maybe
I can answer your actual
question. Well, I'm trying to
understand how this gets bound,
how this gets bound up.
So I, I go and
get a parent element presumably
by ID, right? And then
I need to set the
data to go and looking
at, how do you traverse
the Dom looking for you,
these special curly brace, curly
brace values. And am I
able to go and grab
any parent element and say,
this is a, a client
side template. Yeah, we do.
So that, that, that's, that's
actually quite interesting to chat.
So when you, when you
create, when you use that
someplace, no matter where you
use it, we are shipping
a control. That's called data
view that that is going
to instantiate it on paper
for you. But other controls
could take advantage of this
same system. So what happens
is that when we pass
the template, we are actually
compiling it. If you want
into a JavaScript function and
that's something that's quite powerful.
So what happens is that
Twitch Canada have this template.
And we do this only
once when, when you pass
it on fate, the first
time, and we generate JavaScript
code that would create the
equivalent. And that JavaScript code
is using the Euro and
the Optum API, and where
this becomes really powerful is
that if you have a
double curly Brady's expression, this
expression is JavaScript. We didn't
introduce a new expression language.
Like actually some other template
engines are doing, we are
actually using JavaScript because we
already had it. Why, why
not use it? And if
we go back to the
way we pass the template
and we generate them instructions
from that, this really fits
very well because setting the
attributes of a tag with
an expression, we are just
doing set attributes and we
are just injecting that expression
directly into the code. So
could I put a conditional
inside of a curly brace,
credit brace? You can put
any JavaScript expression you want
Even another, even a call
to jQuery. Yeah, sure. Why
not? Huh. Okay. That's pretty
powerful. Now, how do you
handle, if I was going
to do string concatenation inside,
if I was going to
take first name and last
name and concatenate them, could
I get into trouble? And
that concatenation issue that we
talked about before I, or
are you handling, you know,
in coding these things appropriately
for us? Yeah. So that's
another benefit that we get
for free. When you do
set up with youth, when
you use the dome API,
you know, the world, the,
the browser is going to
do the encoding for you.
When you said the value
of an input tag, for
example, you don't have to
worry about including your, you
don't have to worry about
an unclosed quote in there
because the quote is just
part of the string that
you said, this is exactly
equivalent to using a parameter.
When you build SQL, this
is exactly the same thing.
It's safe by design. Oh,
okay. So this isn't this.
So all this templating is
a clean, HTML focused abstraction
on top of the Dom
API that does the right
thing already. So there is
a lot we get for
free when doing that. And
that's one of the deciding
factors that came into play
when we consider different designs
for, for the some page
feature. And we did consider
quite a lot of them.
Now, how, how would I
do conditionals to show an,
a tag or not show
a tag? If I wanted
to, to look at information
in the data and then
alternatively show something or not
show something? Yeah. So the
way we do it is
that you, you, you, in
addition to the double carry
braces, which are expressions that
get evaluated and injected into
someplace, you can also have
code blocks. And this is
absolutely arbitrary JavaScript. And she
it's just like in a
classy KST or PHP, you
can have a nice instruction
surrounding markets, or you can
have a four loop around
market, which means that if
she wants to do a
conditional rendering, you can put
a nice instruction around the
market that you want to
condition the show or hide.
And that's how you do
it. And that's that that's,
that's just done as a
script block, or how is
that? That if statement tunneled.
So the, the, the script
clerk, when we pass the
template, we just take that
square block and we inject
the code directly into the
function that we're generating. Again,
we are getting the benefit
of JavaScript for free here,
But that script block is
inside of a comment. Oh,
okay. So the actual, the
actual syntax here for those
code blocks is inside special
comments. So it's a, you
know, inferior bang dash dash,
and then we're using a
start to this thing where
you start from where you
doll that she made comments.
So this was, this was
something that we heavily discussed.
We tried to find many
of our, we try to
find even one alternate way
of doing that. And unfortunately,
comments were the, the, the
most viable options options here.
So it's kind of a
problem because comments are supposed
to be optional and you
should be able to remove
comments and get the same
behavior. Yeah. And someone might
strip them out. I mean,
they may have, they may
have a mini fire that
strips them out. Yep. And
that's, that's a, that's one
of the programs that we
decided to just leave with
because all the other company
dates for that just had
their own issues that were
more important than, than this
issue. So share where we
already hitting a supplemental program,
which is that we are
trying to introduce new semantics
into an already existing language,
which is at CML. Well,
I suppose they could certainly
do that kind of logic
in post-processing if they didn't,
if they found that comment,
block distasteful, they could simply
do the work later. That,
that that's an excellent point
and something that we should
quite some detail actually, which
is that all that you
can do here can also
be done. Imperatively so every
time you, every time the
Thumbtack gets intense instantiated in
data view, for example, there
is an event that's called
on item created that you
can handle. And from these
events, you get access to
all the dumb that you
have just created from the
template. And you can modify
this on the fly. So
this is the clean way
of doing things. If you
don't like the inline code
ducks. Very cool. Very cool.
Well, we're almost out of
time here. So I have
one last question. You know,
if someone's using the, you
know, the big three dot
X library, the three dot
X, Microsoft Ajax library, and
they're going to be moving
to four. Oh, is this
going to be separate files
that they can use a
can, can someone, you know,
if someone wants the FORO
feature set, but they don't
want a lot of the
stuff that's inside of, you
know, three dot X what's
that transition? Like, is it
a, is it a cafeteria
plan? I can pick some
features and not others, or
does a, is it a
whole, you take the entire
JavaScript that you're going to
need. Yeah. So that's, that's
a good question because we
are actually looking for giving
you more choice into what
you, what you include on
what you don't think to
today. Microsoft Ajax is it's
not that big. It's something
like 22 or 24 K
DC. So it's not that
big, but chances are, there
is some stuff in there
that you're not going to
use in your application. So
we want to supply things
into smaller beads so that
you can pick and choose.
And this also applies of
course, with the, the new
stuff we are doing. So
currently, if you include the
new stuff, you include Microsoft
Jack's template, and this contains
the template engine. It contains
the bindings contains the marker
expressions, but all these feeds
together, right? W actually we
haven't talked about the bindings
that this is, this is
a system that enables you
to have bindings, which go
beyond the time that the
complaint it gets into functionality.
So, Well, it sounds like
we go into a lot
more detail if we had
the time, but I'm going
to, we'll send people up
to your, your blog up
at, at asp.net tales from
the evil empire. And we'll
also point people to code
plex.com/asp net. And I'll be
sure to put in all
the links in the show
notes, and then any links
that you give me to,
to get people information about
how they can do this
kind of work themselves. Pretrial.
Thank you so much for
taking the time to chat
with me today. I really
appreciate it. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.